---
layout: archive
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
title: ''
---
**Job Market Paper**


<span style="font-size:16px;">Sectoral effects of corporate taxation in OECD countries (with Olivier Cardi and Romain Restout).</span>

<span style="font-size:14px;">**Abstract**: By developing a new identification of exogenous and permanent changes in corporate taxation, we explore its dynamic effects on labor and innovation which appear to vary widely across countries and sectors. This SVAR identification is based on the downward trend of corporate tax rates observed in OECD countries which is rooted in international competition to attract capital following the removal of capital controls. Our SVAR evidence for a panel of eleven OECD countries over 1973-2017 reveals that following a decline in profits’ taxation, technology improvements are concentrated in traded industries while labor growth originates from non-traded industries. When we split our sample of eleven OECD countries into two sub-samples, we find empirically that continental European countries increase labor significantly while hours worked is essentially unchanged in English-speaking and Scandinavian countries. By contrast, lower corporate taxes encourage traded firms in English-speaking and Scandinavian countries to increase innovation, as captured by a permanent rise in utilization-adjusted-total factor productivity while innovation remains unchanged in continental European countries. Time series on the stock of R&D at a sectoral level corroborate these findings as only the stock of ideas in the traded sector of English-speaking and Scandinavian countries increases significantly following a permanent tax cut. In line with our model’s predictions, a corporate tax cut increases labor in countries with sticky wages and has an expansionary effect on innovation in countries where the cost of innovating is low.</span>

**Work in Progress**

<span style="font-size:14px;">**Productivity divergence, labor income share and structural change (with M. Curuk, and M. Koyuncu)** This study provides empirical observations about the evolution of labor income share, structural change, within-sector productivity dispersion, and increased fixed production costs for the United States. We present a model to illustrate how productivity divergence combined with fixed operating costs change factor shares and sectoral composition. The model with increasing fixed cost and dispersion in TFP growth across firms explains the most significant part of the decrease in aggregate labor share. The model simulations indicate that the differentiation in labor shares of the two sectors and structural change stems from the difference in the standard deviation of TFP between the two sectors. Also, an extension of the model implies that capital-labor substitutability has a crucial role in structural change and factor income shares. </span>

<span style="font-size:14px;">**The effect of tax amnesty on growth and employment: evidence from Turkey (with M. Koyuncu)** In this study, we analyze the effect of tax amnesty on the firm dynamics. We use the Difference in Differences (DiD) methodology to analyze the impact of the 2011 tax amnesty on firms' employment and net sales in Turkey. Analyses are done for two groups of control and treatment firms. The treatment firms are the firms with overdue tax liability, and the control group is the firms with no overdue tax liability. The results show that tax amnesty has a significant and negative impact on the employment and net sales of firms that have tax debt before the amnesty. DiD results indicate that the tax amnesty in 2011 led to a 13% percent decline in employment and a 21% decline in net sales for the firms with unpaid taxes before the amnesty. We offer a potential mechanism that would lead to this result. Firms should pay the first instalment of their unpaid tax within three months after the amnesty is announced to benefit from tax amnesty. Therefore, the tax amnesty will be an extra cost shock for firms with unpaid taxes and apply to benefit from the tax amnesty. We set up DiD estimations by differentiating firms regarding financial liability, capital intensity, and sectors to support this potential explanation.
</span>
